# Minimal Interspecies Interaction Adjustment (MIIA)
MIIA is a network inference tool for predicting member-dependent interactions in microbial communities, which can deepen our understanding of the organization principles in ecological communities.

The manuscript of MIIA has been submitted to *Bioinformatics* for publication and this repository contains the MATLAB code and datasets used for evaluating the tool. 

## System requirements
Matlab R2015b+ in Windows, Mac OS, Linux

## Installation
1. Download 'runMiia.m' and all files in the 'data' folder.
2. Unzip ./data/glvData.zip under ./data if you want to test ``glv`` datasets (glv denotes datasets generated from a generalized Lotka-Volterra model). 

## Tutorial
To get started, move to the installation folder and type 

```matlab
runMiia
```
You can test with different datasets by commenting/uncommenting  lines 7 to 9.
```matlab
% dataSource = 'tutorial';
dataSource = 'friedman'; 
% dataSource = 'glv';
```
## Datasets
1. Tutorial data
```matlab
dataSource = 'tutorial'
```
Hypothetical datasets for illustration (Figure 1).

2. Friedman data
```matlab
dataSource = 'friedman'
```
Datasets for eight competiting soil bacteria collected by Friedman et al. (2017).
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41559-017-0109 

3. *In silico* data generated by a generalized Lotka-Volterra model
```matlab
dataSource = 'glv'
```
File name has the following format: glv_S_r_alpha_beta_trial.mat (S = # of species; r = growth rate; alpha = std of binary interaction coefficients, beta = std of interaction coefficients in complex communities deviating from binary coefficients; trial = # of random trials). 

## Citation
Hyun-Seob Song, *et al.*,``Minimal Interspecies Interaction Adjustment (MIIA): inference of member-dependent interactions in microbiomes,`` *Bioinformatics*, submitted.

## Contacts
Hyun-Seob Song (hyunsbong@gmail.com, or hyunseob.song@pnnl.gov)
